1) Which of the following ingredients is not normally used to brew beer? A) Hops B) Yeast C) Malt D) Vinegar Answer: D
2) Which location is further east? A) New York, New York, USA B) Santiago, Chile Answer: B
3) Substances that have a definite size and shape, and vibrating particles that are close together are: A) Liquids B) Gases C) Solids Answer: C
4) What is the most densely populated U.S. state? A) Connecticut B) New Jersey C) Rhode Island D) Maryland Answer: B
5) King Philip II of Macedonia was assassinated in 336 B.C. and was succeeded by his son. Who was he? A) Alexander the Great B) Philip III C) Diadochi D) Antigonus II Answer: A 
6) What group did Stephen Stills leave to form Crosby, Stills & Nash? A) The Yardbirds B) The Spencer Davis Band C) Buffalo Springfield D) Blind Faith Answer: C
7) Kazakhstan lies at approximately the same latitude as which other country? A) Afghanistan B) Nepal C) Turkey D) Mongolia Answer: D
8) Albert Einstein was a scientist famous for his work on physics. Where was he born? A) Germany B) United States C) France Answer: A
9) Where in the US is the “Petrified Forest”? A) Arizona B) Arkansas C) California D) Nevada Answer: A
10) Which former house painter began the Cubist movement with Picasso? A) Gris B) Braque C) Cezanne Answer: B
11) Is the equator the line between the north and the south poles on Earth? A) Yes B) No Answer: B
12) Our solar system resides _______ of the Milky Way galaxy. A) About 2/3 of the way out from the center B) About 1/3 of the way out from the center C) About 1/4 of the way out from the center Answer: A
13) Which former French colony was the first to achieve independence in Sub-Saharan Africa in 1958? A) Algeria B) Guinea C) Mali D) Central African Republic Answer: B
14) How fast can an ostrich run? A) 25 km/hr (15 mph) B) 50 km/hr (30 mph) C) 65 km/hr (40 mph) Answer: C
15) Balanced forces act on objects that are: A) Stationary B) In motion C) Rising or falling Answer: A
16) Which Caribbean island has the greatest area? A) Jamaica B) Cuba C) Puerto Rico D) Hispanola Answer: B
17) Zulia is a province of which country? A) Colombia B) Brazil C) Venezuela D) Ecuador Answer: C
18) Who painted “The Garden of Earthly Delights”? A) Salvador Dali B) Francisco Goya C) Rembrandt D) Hieronymus Bosch Answer: D
19) On the TV sitcom Seinfeld, what is Kramer’s first name? A) Kessler B) Newman C) Cosmo D) Larry Answer: C
20) Which style of art was produced in, or under the influence of, the Eastern Roman Empire? A) Levantine B) Baroque C) Byzantine Answer: C
21) A country that is divided into 22 administrative regions and subdivided into 95 departments is: A) Canada B) India C) Brazil D) France Answer: D
22) Which state of the U.S. has recorded the fastest surface wind? A) Illinois B) New Hampshire C) Montana D) Alaska Answer: B
23) The Arrhenius theory describes the sequence wherein atomic orbitals get filled up with electrons. A) True B) False Answer: B
24) An egg-shaped galaxy is called: A) Elliptical B) Spiral C) Irregular Answer: A
25) Which country will have the highest estimated net increase in population between 1995-2000 (16 million more people)? A) China B) Bangladesh C) Nigeria D) India Answer: D
26) The jelly-like substance that makes up most of a cell is the: A) Nucleus B) Chloroplast C) Cytoplasm Answer: C
27) One of these words does not belong. Find the odd word out. A) For B) By C) Yet D) Near Answer: C
28) The Arctic is one of the seven continents of the world. A) True B) False Answer: B
29) Steven Bochco was a creator of both “L.A. Law” and: A) Hill Street Blues B) Life Goes On C) Cagney and Lacey D) Law and Order Answer: A
30) What is the capital of French Polynesia? A) Praia B) Papeete C) Moroni D) Cayenne Answer: B
31) How much of your vision do you lose if you go blind in one eye? A) 50 percent B) 10 percent C) 35 percent D) 20 percent Answer: D
32) What is the origin of the name “America”? A) From Amerigo Vespucci, famous 15th century explorer. B) It was given as war compensation from Spain (“amerce”=fine) C) Named by king Ferdinand II after his favourite stallion D) From a spanish word meaning “rich plains” Answer: A
33) Which city was once known as Yeddo? A) Toledo B) Moscow C) Tokyo Answer: C
34) One of these words does not belong with the other three.[cr][cr]Find the odd word out. A) December B) Monday C) February D) June Answer: B
35) Weathering by abrasion occurs by agents such as: A) Gravity B) wind and water C) Tree roots Answer: B
36) Which country’s Antarctic claim covers the greatest swath of longitude? A) New Zealand B) Argentina C) Australia D) United Kingdom Answer: C
37) Goulash is a beef soup associated with this nation: A) Morocco B) Greece C) Israel D) Hungary Answer: D
38) In what year did Garfield High School become the first Seattle high school with more than 50 percent nonwhite student body? A) 1969 B) 1963 C) 1957 D) 1955 Answer: C
39) What type of galaxy is the Milky Way galaxy? A) Irregular B) Elliptical C) Spiral Answer: C
40) Which performer received a gold single for the song “Daniel” in 1973? A) Billy Joel B) Elton John C) Michael Jackson D) Paul Simon Answer: B
